Getting started with Compute Engine
Objectives
in this lab ,i will learn how 
Create a  Compute Engine virtual machine using Google Cloud Console
Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud commmandline interface
Connect between the two instances
Steps are as follows

Create a Compute Engine VM using GCP
gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-1"\--machine type "n1-standard-1 -- \image" project debian cloud"\ -- image "  debian-9- stretch" \subnet" default "-- tags http

To create firewall command line
gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow- http--ALLOW -- destination= INGRESS --rules= http: 80-- target- tag= http

Create a Virtual Machine Using the Commandline Interface
Choose a zone and use the grep tool to filter out list associated with us-central1
gcloud compute zones list/grep us-central1
Set the zone to  another as instructed 
gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b
Then create a VM in that zone
gcloud compute instances create " my -vm-2"\
-- machine type " n1-standard1 "\
-- image project"debian cloud"\
--image ''debian-9-stretch-v2019213"\
--subnet"default"

Connect two instances
Use the ping commmand to  confirm if my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network.

Connect to my-vm- 2;
gcloud compute ssh my-vm-2

ping my-vm-1 from my-vm-2
ping -c 4 my-vm-1

Use the ssh command to open command prompt on my -vm-1 from my-vm-2
ssh my-vm-1

At the command prompt on my-vm-1 ,install the nginx web server

sudo apt-get install nginx-light -y
 Then use the nano text editor to add a custom message to the home page of the web server

sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html

Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:

Hi from Gbemisola

Press Ctrl+O and then press Enter to save your edited file, and then press Ctrl+X to exit the nano text editor.
Confirm the webserver 
Confirm that the web server is serving your new page.
 At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

curl http://localhost/

we will exit to get bck to my-vm-1 from my-vm-2
The result should be
The response will be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.

 Then exit the command prompt on my-vm-1 to get back to my-vm-2 execute this command:

exit
We confirm that my-vm-2 can reach the web server on my-vm-1

curl http://my-vm-1/

The response will again be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.

We proceed to Navigation menu  click compute engine vm instances 

Copy the External IP address for my-vm-1 
from this command

gcloud compute instances list--zone us central1b

paste the coied external IP into the address bar of a new browser tab.
 You will see your web server's home page, including your custom text.


 paste it into the address bar of a new browser tab. You will see your web server's home page, including your custom text.
